# Spiral_Matrix
This was a java project that I created as a part of my final for my AP Computer Science class.

For this program, given an m x n matrix, I was tasked to return all elements of the matrix in spiral order. When I was developing an algorithm for this program, I spent a long time trying to figure out a pattern in the sequence of numbers to print out the spiral matrix. Eventually, I started thinking of how to navigate the 2d array and add the values into an array list for the result. I used variables for the starting row, starting column, ending row, and ending column respectively. After creating the array list for the result, I entered a while loop that protects the program from going out of bounds and going all the way into the middle of the spiral matrix. I planned to follow the matrix from left to right, top to bottom, right to left, and then keep going until the program reaches the middle. Therefore, I created a for loop which started at the starting column until the ending column, adding the position of i in the starting row. I kept going according to what I had planned, with each for loop adding the values according to a spiral pattern. If the for loop was dedicated to a column, I added the row value at position i, and if it was dedicated to a row, I added the values in the column at position i. This ensured that the values added were in a spiral line pattern. When I checked the program, I realized that I did not update the positions of the row and column as my result was not printing the whole matrix. Therefore, I updated the starting row and column variables by one, and the ending row and ending column minus one. This allows the loops to move into the inner columns and rows of the array while adding it to the matrix. After testing the program again with a 2d array field with numbers 1-9, the program successfully printed the array list result with the correct order of numbers in a spiral order. 
